OK I like to discuss app icon strategies.
Experts always say you only get one shot to make a great first impression.
Your icon is the first thing that will draw users attention to your app.
Screw this chance up and it'll be much harder uphill battle for you.
Most successful app developers have this in common use simple graphics incorporate bright colors one
or two colors at the most and use unique shapes.
Apple uses icon required 2048 by 2048 pixels and 57 by 57 pixels for mobile devices.
The iPad is twenty forty eight pixels wide by 15 36 pixels tall whereas Google Play store uses 512 by
512 pixels and mobile devices forty eight forty eight pixels.
Now Google now allows you to AVI split test your app icons and screen shots in real time.
It's super important to always split test everything especially your app icon here.
I know one situation where they changed just their app icon and experienced over a 200 percent increase
in downloads overnight.
You just never really know what's going to be a hit with your targeted users.
That's why I want you to have several app icons created and then split tested to see which app icon
is going to deliver the most downloads and reigns supreme.
All right here's some tips for both Apple and Android.
Try to make it stand out such as a 3D border or a character that blocks some part of the border.
Apple rounds the borders automatically.
Therefore you don't have to around the edges here.
Think of something simple that sums up your app.
Use colors that make it pop out.
Go with one or two colors at the most here.
Always make it consistent with your app design.
Don't forget about details here.
Users will see a small icon but it also has to look great when scaled as well.
Please keep trends in mind here.
You don't have to follow them rigidly but they are trends for a reason.
Also always remember it's not just for an app store.
It will also be displayed on your user's phones or tablets.
Try and give them something they will love to see on theirs.
Never use words they won't be visible on a tiny icon anyway so avoid text here.
Never use a photo try an illustration.
Instead I want you to be creative yet simple here.
Test your app icon on different wallpapers to see how it stands out to simulate how it will look like
against different wallpapers one might have on their device.
Test your app icon on a solid background color first and not gradient.
And lastly split test your app icons.
I can't stress that enough.
OK I'll see you in the next lecture.